# Brain-waves-controlled-Chair-and-home-automation-for-disabled-persons.
Brain Computer Interface (BCI) is one of the communication channel used to make an interaction between human brain and digital computer to control/operate the external devices without having any touch of muscular body part. This provides the easiness in operations and also helpful to elder and decibel people. This is useful for people who cannot operate the peripheral devices using our normal muscular body parts.
The proposed system aims to control home appliances (like bulb, fan etc.) with the help of Human Attention Level which comes under non-invasive method of brains signal measurement. This attention is being measured by brain waves converting Headset. Attention level values are ranges from 1 to 100. Attention means user's level of mental focus which occurs during intense concentration and directed (but stable) mental activity. So to get attention values user should observe the object (or focus onto the object).  a BCI system which helps the patient to navigate the wheelchair from one place to another based on motor imagery model to control a brain actuated wheelchair. This allows the user to control the direction for four movements left turn, right turn, forward and backward movement, of the simulation or real wheelchair.
Many studies over the past two decades have shown that people and animals can use brain signals to convey their intent to a computer using brain-computer interfaces (BCIs). BCI systems measure specific features of brain activity and translate them into control signals that drive an output.
Nowadays, due to the impact of the inventions and innovations, various methods are adopted for the controlling of home appliances. Particularly, they are designed for the elderly people and also for the ill. In some cases many advanced systems are constructed for the physically disabled people. The main problem in all these systems is that they are not suitable for all kinds of people and under all conditions. Each system needs a specific design and device, which increases the cost of production and also less stability. Main objective of our project is to make a common system, which is used by all kind of people at all the situations for controlling devices around us.
